# 802.11 WiFi Notes

This document contains notes related to mechanisms investigated for ingesting
Wi-Fi packets monitored by commodity hardware.

One beginner-friendly reference I've been finding extremely useful to getting
oriented to the language of 802.11 is the following book:

https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/80211-wireless-networks/0596100523/


## Landscape and limitations

Without being associated with an access point the WiFi card  can only intercept
and decode up to link-layer frames. We will have access to MAC addresses,
channel information, signal strength, etc. However, we will not be able to
decode higher-layer information such as the IP layer or TCP layer information
without being associated to an access point.


## Useful Acronyms From the 802.11 Standard

Documentation and tools related to the 802.11 protocol use A LOT of acronyms. When
looking at the standard there are not only acronyms defined by 802.11, but other
acronyms are used that are taken from other standards from the 802 family of
standards.

Below is a list of acronyms I encountered that are particularly useful to understanding
the tools that work with 802.11 packets.


STA - A wireless station that communicates using the 802.11 link layer
protocol.

BSS - Basic Service Set - A lose term to describe a set of stations
working together to provide a wireless service.

ESS - Extended Service Set - A union of Basic Service Sets connected
by a distribution service (DS)

DMG - Directional Multi-Gigabit - A physical layer device that supports
directionally sensing signals above 1 Gbps

RSN - Robust Security Network

ERP - Extended-Rate PHY (802.11g physical layer definition)

MAC - Media Access Control

FHSS - Frequency--hopping spread spectrum

DSSS - Direct-sequence spread spectrum

OFDM - Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing - PHY layer specification used
in 802.11a and 802.11g

HR/DSSS - High-rate DSS - (802.11b PHY definition)

SSID - Service Set Identifier


## Using Scapy for monitoring traffic

It turns out that the python package Scapy is mature and well-suited for
scanning packets using commodity hardware. Below is a list of the layers parsed
from WiFi packets.  Scapy also has the ability to decode Bluetooth, Ethernet,
and many other protocols.  This makes it a good choice as an interoperable
library for our application for the following reasons:

* It provides a build-in sniffer application that can use wireless interfaces
  recognized by the OS to listen and dynamically decode traffic.
* The packet decoding logic is separate from the sniffer application. As our
  vision is to swap out the radio layer with an SDR, once we have an SDR running
  that and receive 802.11 packets, we can easily replace the sniffing application
  but still keep the layer that decodes and ingests packets into our database
  for analysis. This also limits the friction of having to setup and interface
  with an external service and saves us the time of writing all of the interface
  handling between the different data formats (i.e. we don't have to adapt kismet
  specific data logging into our application).
* We don't have to hold onto all of the data, we can make dynamic run-time decisions
  and simply choose to omit logging for data we don't need. This would drastically
  reduce network and storage cost as the application scales.


### Wi-Fi Packet Parsed by scapy

The following are the different layers decoded by Scapy. For convenience, I've
added comments with links to more information about what some layers are, and
will add more as they come in. It may be useful to reference the acronym list
above as well.

```python
// Radiotap
// https://www.radiotap.org/
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.RadioTap'>

// Frame Sequece Check
// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frame_check_sequence
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11FCS'>

// Beacon Frame
// https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beacon_frame
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Beacon'>


<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltRates'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltDSSSet'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltCountry'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltERP'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltRSN'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltRates'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltHTCapabilities'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltVendorSpecific'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltVendorSpecific'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltVendorSpecific'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltVendorSpecific'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11EltVendorSpecific'>
<class 'scapy.layers.dot11.Dot11Elt'>
```
