# Minimum Viable Product

As described in our [Motivation](./Abstract.pdf), the goal of our product is to
provide a system which is capable of detecting what we call "rogue" devices in
a protected airspace.  The software for such a product requires three high-level
subsystems:

1. The detection system is responsible for scanning the surrounding airspace
   and detecting devices in the area.
2. The analysis system is responsible for ingesting the data output from the
   detection system and generating alerts based on suspicious activity.
3. The alerting system is responsible for taking actions based on alerts
   generated by the analysis system.

### Detection System

The detection system is responsible for scanning the airspace for devices and
collecting the data necessary for other parts of the system to act on.

For the MVP, the detection system should be able to:

- detect Wi-Fi devices in the area
- detect an RF frequency (TBD) that should not be allowed in our airspace
- log information about the devices in the area to a data store (TBD) that can be
  accessed by the rest of the system.

If time allows (and hardware access):

- Bluetooth and/or BLE devices in our airspace.


### Analysis System

The analysis system must be able to:

- store allow lists for protocol/device identifiers
- analyze the data logged by the detection system to determine if there are any
  unauthorized devices in the system. Hard-coded rules are fine for MVP, it
  would be nice to have something configurable.
- generate and submit alerts to the alerting system.

If time allows:

- Live plotting of signal strengths on a per-device basis

## Alerting System

The alerting system must be able to:

- read and act on alerts generated from the analysis system.
- interface with different communication channels for sending alerts. For V1,
  it should be something simple like email, but be extensible to include other
  types of alerts.
